hey guys hope you enjoyed the episode
brought to you by our sponsors at blue
blocks
go to blueblocks.com forward slash
impact theory for 15 off your order or
just use discount code impact theory at
checkout
all right enjoy the episode
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of conversations with tom
i am here with physicist turned
award-winning and best-selling fiction
author
david brin david welcome to the show
it's great to be uh oh it's great to be
anywhere but especially
in your company tom and and those of you
that of
your perspicacious audience well thank
you that's
very kind uh as i was saying before we
started rolling i
really struggled with where to start
with you you've thought through so
many topics but there's one ted talk
that you gave
that i found really interesting this
idea of
outrage and how you knew as you were
telling people that the world is
in many ways getting better that that
was actually going to piss some people
off
and you ended the talk by saying uh in
the old
network film fashion you wanted them to
stick their head out the window
and say that they are instead of the
classic i'm mad as hell and i'm not
going to take it anymore that you wanted
them to say i'm proud as hell
and my civilization can solve any
problem
and i thought that was a really
interesting place to start especially
given the tenor
of some people's attitudes right now
you're not a pollyanna person so what is
it that makes you say that we can solve
these problems
well i guess the fact that i have kids i
i really have to believe
that we can solve problems i i
spend a large fraction of my life in the
future
both as a science fiction author uh
speculating and
do an awful lot of consulting for
agencies corporations and things like
that about
future technological trends across the
near term
across the intermediate term which in
science fiction is the hardest to write
my novel's earth and existence are both
set around the year 2040 and that's the
most difficult one to write and
the long-term future um
the you know when when whoever takes
over
will look back at us as having been
primitive cavemen like ancestors
i'd like them to add but they did pretty
good and they
made progress to make us
and that cues into one of the
best aphorisms i know and that is your
your job
in this temporary time that you're on
this planet
is to try to be a good ancestor if
you don't have kids of course you can
still be a good ancestor because
everybody on this planet is related to
you
um including you when you look back
though
so one thing you've talked pretty
eloquently about is you know looking
backwards over the 6 000 years of
identifiable human history it's it's
marked by
feudalism brutality uh you know some
pretty gnarly things
so given that we are in your words the
ancestor
ancestors of the guys who had those
harems
what is it that makes you like
concretely what what is it that
um is it our prefrontal lobes is it uh
that you see technology moving only in a
positive direction what makes you think
that this ends well
well i i i don't uh necessarily think
that
if you look across those six thousand
years
um among 99 of our ancestors
anybody who who lived in a society that
had agriculture
they were bullied by a few males who
gathered together and said hey you know
if we
pick up these sticks or swords
we can take other men's women and wheat
um
and this led to the pyramid-shaped
social structure that dominated almost
every
human civilization almost every society
and we're all descended from the harems
of the guys who pulled off that trick
and that helps to explain why males have
such weird fantasies
about things that we're never going to
get but we fantasize about them anyway
and if we're good in the things we do
then our women folk will put up with the
things we think
um but across those 6 000 years
of gruesome feudal
societies dominated by kings princes
lords priests
who you know sometimes they had good
rationalizations
how they were going to take care of
everybody in fact at the beginning
there was only enough surplus to give
extra food
every meal to a few boys
and those boys would grow up
functionally smarter
than the ones who went through periods
of starvation and didn't have fully
myelinated brains
uh functionally taller they really
seemed like they were closer to the gods
so their mythology that the lords and
the priests and all that were closer to
god
it was it was in certain ways it was
true
and they needed those few those 50 or
100 or 200
boys to grow up capable of being
of learning to read and write so at the
beginning
the pyramidal structure might have even
made some sense
but over time what happened in this
gruesome story
that we call history you start seeing
that
this pyramidal structure had a huge flaw
and that is that the ones at top
had only one priority and that's to stay
on top
and make sure that their sons would
inherit other people's sons and
daughters
that was their top priority their only
priority
maybe a little bit governed well and the
result was
horrible governance and that horrible
story
called history that's the basis of
science fiction
i'm going to take a little aside here
and talk about science fiction because
only 10 of us science fiction authors
are
scientifically trained as i am yet some
of the best
hard science fiction with real science
in it
is written by former english majors
nancy kress for example
greg bear kim stanley robinson sheila
finch
ursula le guin they write
really dynamite hard science fiction
with science in it
because we've created a civilization
that's very different than that old
pyramid
ours is diamond shape with a large
middle class
that's unafraid of the rich and and
outnumbers the poor and in those
circumstances
people who go to university especially
in the united states
they feel it's their right to ask
questions
and that's the key to being a science
fiction author
if you live near a university you can
get the hard science expertise you want
for the price of pizza you go to the
department that's doing what you want to
write about and you
offer to to take a couple of technical
experts out for pizza
and pick their minds you get what you
need in order to have your characters
say the right things
in the course of your story it's a quite
a deal and here's the even better deal
they'll enjoy it so much that they'll
pay for the pizza
so um i mentioned that the great story
is history
humanity climbing out of the caves
grindingly pulling itself out of
this morass of feudal
lordships that dominated 99 of our
ancestors
and that story there's nothing like that
story
most science fiction authors have
studied more history than they have
science
and science fiction should have been
called speculative history
because it speculates about
what this story is going to show
next or alternate histories
so it shouldn't have been called science
fiction it should have been called
speculative fiction
so if it's true sorry speculative
history
if it's true that the job of the science
fiction writer isn't to predict the
car it's to predict the traffic jam um
what do you see coming our way that we
need to be
aware of what are the the traps that you
see set
given modern life well you know
this is why we have these pre-frontal
lobes
these little nubs above our eyes that
are called
sometimes in reference to the bible uh
the lamps on our brow
most of the other things that we do that
animals can't do
they we only do a lot better throwing
for example was probably key to our
evolution
freeing up the hands and giving us
the food we needed to become less clumsy
um in one of my novels i talk about how
the fact that we sweat
resulted in us being the one predator
who could hunt in the noonday sun
huge advantage but
the prefrontal lobes are the only thing
organs that we have that no other animal
has
at all and these are the organs that let
us
imagine what if
for instance it's the seed of empathy
what if
i were that person with that person's
problems and that person's upbringings
how would i feel and empathy allows you
to either
sympathize with others as we're trying
to do in this culture because we're all
you know largely satiated we're able to
expand
the horizons of inclusion and this
expansion of the horizons
of inclusion is the great american
project and it's
taking up an awful lot of space on the
internet and the airwaves as it should
be
as it should we need to to to continue
this project
of inclusion but empathy can also enable
you
if you're at war or
in competition to defeat your enemy
because you can guess what they're
thinking
so the prefrontal lobes are powerful in
that regard
but they also do something very amazing
and it's the key of science fiction and
that is what
if i do this or what if somebody did
this or what if my
enemy did this in other words
speculating about
the future about things that haven't
happened yet
and so we create these
notions through a process called
anticipation
now i'm one of a dozen or so science
fiction authors who consults with
various agencies companies and all that
sort of thing
uh this is the first year and sixth that
i haven't spoken at cia for example
and i tried them all the time for having
limited
tunnel vision in the things that they
worry about because they should worry
about a lot more than they worry about
and i'll tell you about tassat i'm going
to drop that down later
but the thing is that that
their job is to take anticipation what
the prefrontal lobes do
where you you the audience member or you
tom
you're thinking what would happen if i
raised this
at the meeting tomorrow what would
happen if i criticized this idea of my
bosses
what would happen if i wear this outfit
what would happen if i try to run this
yellow light
and that's called anticipation you work
out scenarios and the cia
most government agencies most leaders
most leaders of companies their
principal job is to try to
scope out and anticipate
what strategy might work better so we
have computer models we have statistical
models that are improving
our anticipatory ability tremendously
and there are some amazing things
being developed in the art of prophecy
and prediction
as we speak but
the thing i keep pointing out is that
anticipation inevitably fails
we do this prefrontal lobe thing
very badly maybe 60 correct
when you're smart and wise and you're
not and you're saying you might be
right 60 of the time in your projections
the cia with their
tools and models they might be right 70
of the time and and get rid of a lot of
dangers
in advance that we never know about but
they will inevitably fail
and when they fail has happened on 9 11
has happened on 1-6
when those anticipations fail you have
to fall back on the partner of
resilience
and partner sorry i gave it away the
partner of anticipation
which is resilience your ability to take
a blow
fall roll and land on your feet
and that is what we have displayed
during the coven we've shown
both we've shown the failure of an
anticipation
we've shown that a lot of the past
anticipation led to
activities that led to a degree of
resilience that resulted in within one
year
spectacular um
delivery of uh of
vaccines and all of that and we saw
failures of resilience that need to be
fixed
our society's inability to resiliently
decide
we're in this together this is what we
need to do
so the way you improve
all of those capabilities anticipation
and resilience
is by taking hard knocks
you get hit in the head you get punched
in the stomach
and if we plan better
and if we have a more resilient society
and and and
try to restore our society's ability to
negotiate
rather than scream
then we may improve
anticipation and resilience
enough to get past the next 50 to 100
years
and that was me blah blah blah blah blah
i guess but it was a
complicated concept and i have
absolutely absolute faith
that your audience on impact theory
followed it all was very very generous
of you
um i want to talk about that the notion
of screaming if we can get
past that you know i think a lot so i
have no idea how much you know about my
background but
um so impact theory is a studio we're
trying to build something that rivals
disney we
um focus heavily on science fiction and
fantasy
and so thinking a lot about um
you know what are those elements that
you see coming that you want to help
guide people through
and i've heard you talk about how you've
referred to the culture war as being
treasonous and
i want to know how
much you think the division is a future
problem
something that we need to be aware of is
it something else you sort of hinted at
things the cia are worried about um
what is it that we should be most
paranoid of
is it treasonous uh division within the
country is it something else
well um i'm going to take this
opportunity to plug
my latest uh book which is called
vivid tomorrow's science fiction in
hollywood
and it's non-fiction like my earlier
non-fiction book the transparent society
only this one is a series of insights
into how hollywood
has promulgated the memes that make us
who we are and
to make a long story short because you
know i go into avatar
and and dances with wolves and
uh avatar is dances with very very very
very very
very very tall smurfs um
and star wars and star trek some of my
really infamous
riffs on star wars but fundamentally
what it's about
is how hollywood has
pushed the greatest propaganda campaign
the world has ever seen
um and what specifically is that
propaganda
um this is all tied together
we're in an era when um a majority of
americans
wants to proceed with the positive sum
project american project
of constantly getting better
we're not satisfied having done what
martin luther king wanted us to do and
that was
um you know provide basic voting rights
and and
and the right to share drinking
fountains in hotels
uh we're not satisfied with that we have
to move
on and deal with the remaining
injustices
which are very real just as he said we
have to move on
from ending slavery um
so this notion of improveability
that we're in a society that can be made
better
than our and our parents took for
granted
even though they had improved
it from their parents
this is not something you find across
history
in most cultures you do not
find in most cultures the notion that
the brightest children should be raised
to be uppity and to criticize
their own tribal elders and many of your
audience probably a majority
have a reflex of suspicion of authority
soa where did you get this
we are taught to think that we invented
it
you yes you not not you tom you
you the person listening to this right
now watching this right now you know who
you are
you invented suspicion of authority
right
wrong it is preached in every hollywood
film
name one that you've enjoyed across the
last 20 years
that did not preach stand up to some
authority figure
it could be invading aliens uh it could
be an abusive boss
it could be just a gossipy mother-in-law
but in a situation comedy but
you stand up to to oppressive authority
tolerance diversity these are all in
the hollywood propaganda and
eccentricity
personal individuality
look at the movies you've most enjoyed
the
character you're supposed to bond with
expresses
some eccentric trait early on in the
film
then that helps the audience bond with
that protagonist and here's the deal
it doesn't have to be your eccentric
trait
it could be one that even irritates you
but the fact that this is an
individualist
expressing an eccentric trait
facing oppressive authority this is what
hollywood has learned helps bond with
the audience and there are
almost no other societies throughout all
of history that taught this
there's a fifth lesson and it is the
most important one
and if your audience members don't grasp
this concept they should go
and study it until they do and that is
the concept of the positive sum
game the notion
that we can engage in compete
competition
with each other in ways that develop a
positive sum rising tide lifts all boats
is one cliche
most of human history was zero-sum
and that is in order for me to win
you have to lose most sporting events
are like that
one team has to win in order to make the
other team lose
this was the case with empires this was
the case with family versus family
for 6 000 years city versus city
the notion of the positive sum game
is that i want to be the one who
wins more while we all win
elon musk for example he's giving us
access to space and elect
and broke through the psychological
barrier of electric cars so we're all
going to get them from volkswagen and
general motors and everybody well he's
done very well
by that he's winning
but we're all winning too because
of those breakthroughs like spacex and
all of that
people in this civilization a large
majority of them
understand the basic concept of the
positive sum game
most of the people in your audience tom
grasp the notion and would be
shocked by how few of our ancestors
would have a clue what it means because
we all know we have neighbors in the
united states of america and canada and
the west
who don't they think it's a plot
they think it's a polemical trick all
this talk of of positive some games
and it's true in the leadership casts
in our rival nations those that are
despotic
the thing they fear most is that they
just
don't understand this
way of thinking this new era so they
feel it has
to be crushed so all right
five memes that are pushed by hollywood
and have been for 80
years at least to varying degrees
and most of your audience members tom
resent being told that they got these
values from propaganda
you you think you invented it you think
you were the first to
declare suspicion of authority or just
you and your own little group and
here's the irony of that um
during normal times the main difference
between
a decent republican and a decent
democrat is
who they think is trying to become an
oppressive authority figure
they share and they share now
this sense that freedom is a narrow
window of time
that could be crushed at any time by big
brother
and a decent republican is afraid that
the ones the authority figures trying to
become big brother are
snooty academics and faceless government
bureaucrats
a decent democrat is concerned about
conniving aristocrats oligarchs
trillionaires and faceless corporations
but when you put it that way they're
both right
male humans if they get a chance to
cheat and conspire against
an egalitarian fair society
are going to be tempted to cheat six
thousand years
show they will show they often will
and we are seeing this now
and we're seeing it unfortunately in a
pitting of
people positive some people against
positive some people
yeah that so when you
talk about that we're getting a lot of
this stuff as memes
that um the reason that i'm building
impact theory is because i so believe in
film in particular as a medium its
ability to
put out values out into the world you're
one of the few people though that i've
heard talk about how
subtle shifts in the way that you
present the value have huge consequences
you talked about avatar i found this
really interesting and you said look
hollywood is doing something incredibly
dangerous
and they are making it seem like there's
everyone should just give up there's
humans are bad there's
no way forward and you were talking
about you know you thought james cameron
probably had the best of intentions
but the reality of showing that it's
like the sort of evil
men are up against the evil forget the
name of the avatar
the navi um and you gave a quick
breakdown of a subtle change they could
have made to the setup that would have
this huge
implication in terms of how we the
audience read that do you remember that
breakdown
i thought this was really helpful it's
it's right here in vivid tomorrow's
where i i i say and you summarized that
extremely well
you really understood that piece um
james cameron had the very best of
intentions
he came on and gave us dances with uh
very tall smurfs
actually let's take six berries as given
there
um and uh fern gully and
and all these other lessons chiding
lessons from the past
that have helped us to become better
uh also in vivid tomorrow's i talk about
the role of science fiction
in preaching what's called the
self-preventing prophecy
um many people in your audience have
have seen the movie soylent green
another movie
silent running a bunch of environmental
movies
that have chided us about how much we'll
lose if we don't
wake up to what's happening to our
mother world and
i i participated i had a novel called
earth
that was called the moby dick of the
whole earth movement
um and these stories recruited
so many tens of millions of
environmentalists that if we squeak by
this period of crisis it will be partly
due to science fiction um
the china syndrome um probably nuclear
accidents would have been worse
um certainly um outbreak and some of
these
you know these these these films about
um
about uh pandemics helped because
many of the people who worked on these
new mrna
therapies say they were motivated that
way
nuclear war was arguably and there are
retired military officers who say
that it's true nuclear war was probably
helped to be prevented by
um dr strangelove on the beach fail safe
war games all of which pointed at
possible
um accidental ways that it could happen
and you may exist because of that but
the granddaddy of all the
self-preventing prophecies
is george orwell's 1984 which girded
hundreds of millions of people
to um have a much stronger
allergic reaction to accumulations of
authority
all of that all of which was prefaced to
getting back to avatar
because cameron wanted to do
a self-preventing prophecy he wanted to
join
soylent green and silent running and all
that in
um in warning about
uh ecological uh uh damage
he wanted to join the
tsunami of stories critical
of colonialism he succeeded
he totally succeeded at that
the problem i have with avatar is
that the situation in the movie
presumes that none of the humans
in that movie ever watched avatar
i i mean that's a simplistic way to put
it but none of the people
in that movie act as if they had ever
experienced those warnings
that made jim cameron want to make this
movie
none of them had experienced the
emotions
that james cameron wanted to elicit in
the audience
they were all almost all
thugs and the only reason that the
protagonist isn't a thug
is because of circumstances of his
experiencing a series of miracles
of the white savior
it didn't have to be that way avatar
could have had exactly the same story if
they in the first five minutes
showed some humans are really trying
hard to do better here
some humans watched avatar
and i offer a contrived circumstance
under which both those good humans
and the moderate navi
are all killed while they're negotiating
and that leaves the company free
to go ahead and do its terrible things
because human males human males
feudalism
uh i'm saying that
if you are aware of these propaganda
messages
it doesn't mean you have to stop giving
propaganda messages
it means you can do it with a little
more panache and finesse because as it
stands
avatar simply says humans are horrible
ugly and evil and give up and we should
all die
and it didn't have to give that message
you actually really worry about that i
see that a lot
um the where the punch line
is that you know we're sort of the stain
on humanity one of the things that i
or on humanity on ourselves on the
planet however you want to think about
it one of the things i liked about the
matrix so much
is that it you've got the bad guys
taking the position that humans are a
virus and they actually make a pretty
interesting uh analogy that makes you go
god like do we really go too far are we
creating problems
um but then ultimately you've got neo
and the band of humans that rise up and
do something good and you feel their
heart and you feel their love for
others um and so it's a very sort of
warm feeling that i get from that movie
and in the science fiction that i'm
writing myself called neon future
which is about a world in which humanity
has been divided between those with
technology implanted in their bodies and
those without
and we wanted to take the stance that
actually technology isn't
it's not going to be skynet it's not
going to be the thing that takes us out
it's going to be the thing that saves us
and but even like when you're walking
through that minefield
uh it it's really tricky to make sure
that
you keep the conflict really high
and yet have a message that you know
people can take away that's functional
that gives them something to do in the
real world
whether that's hope optimism a more
specific
moral whatever you know it is that
you're trying to do
but it was you gave me such an
interesting way to sort of re-look at
avatar because i
um i took away the positive side
of you know not being the that
comes in and just
sort of rape minds a planet for
you know what they have to offer um
but i guess i let roll off my back this
idea that
there was sort of there were no
redeeming qualities and as i
step back and look at where i feel
culture going there is this sense of
you know all we're doing is is digging a
hole and the planet would be better off
without us
well i have a character in my novel
earth
who represents that
side of environmentalism and over the
course of the novel she gets her hands
on a weapon system
that could reduce the human population
down to the level that she thinks would
work well with the planet and that's
fifty thousand
which is worse than thanos oh yes
much worse than thanos and of course she
is opposed by another woman who
is a much more modernist
environmentalist
who thinks that um no
we're not a plague upon this planet we
are this planet's only chance
to get eyes and an arm to reach out to
the stars
and perhaps
um sexual organs to be able to go out
there and find
mates out there so to speak if you
if you were to um
metaphorically say that the planet is a
living being
then humanity and our internet
and our society we are the one chance
this planet has to have a
brain to think and not in a monolithic
way
the way my friend isaac uh asimov talked
about how we would
you know wind up galaxia just having
this one
cosmic mind no
your mind as a person your mind is a
vast ecosystem
you have thoughts that conflict with
each other you argue with yourself
all the time this is the kind of model
that at least in my novel earth i
present
as being the sort of thing that works
because this civilization
has done things that no other
ever did if a.i were to rise up
against us the first thing i'd say is so
who the hell made you
it wasn't the romans you know it wasn't
the catholic church it wasn't
it wasn't the the takagawa shoguns
you were made by a diversity
by a diverse culture that spread
itself out rather than being a pyramid
of power and privilege
experiments when you say that we spread
ourselves out in that example i don't
understand what you mean
spread ourselves out from uh um a
sort of mixing of ideology and genetics
or
what do you mean we spread our we spread
out power
um instead of this pyramid
which is inherently stupid look
if you want to become a good silversmith
you take criticism on your first
attempts at being a silversmith and it
makes you better
i teach creative writing to classes
sometimes
and i am appalled by
what a huge fraction of humanity can't
deal with criticism
now of course it hurts and there are
times when it's nasty
and there are times when i say up yours
but if you school yourself to accept
that criticism is the only known
antidote to error situate
i'll repeat it criticism is the only
known antidote
to error human beings are all delusional
we all have delusions that we nurse
becoming a scientist i was taught to
repeat the sacred
catechism of science
i might be wrong
and if you are taught to recite that
it enables you to use the tools of
science to eliminate maybe half
of your delusional errors that's a
that's huge
scientists are pretty oh wow
but the other half are still there
and the it's the delusions that that
empowered kings and priests and nobles
to perform excretably
horrible governance of the nations and
empires that they ruled
but occasionally there was
a way out of this pattern
and this pattern is very powerful called
feudalism because
all those guys who were at the top they
got huge reproductive advantages
i think this is one of the explanations
for the fermi paradox why we don't see
aliens out there because i think a large
fraction of them fall into this
permanently
but we found a way out and it's called
the periclean
experiment pericles was the leader of
the athenian democracy
and it was already vibrant and creative
when he came along but he taught the
athenians
how to run a democracy in a way
where we find each other's delusions
that's the thing
you're deluded tom i'm deluded but we
don't share the same
delusions so i can criticize yours
and i'll give it that give you that
favor for free
your enemies will give you the thing you
most
need for free
they will criticize you for free
and you will happily return that gift
by criticizing them and you cannot
get out of this gift economy if you look
at it that way
so the athenians as long as pericles
lived
they developed an ability to become
maximally creative
by reciprocally holding each other
accountable
it happened again in da vinci's florence
and in amsterdam and in these cultures
were they talking about it were they
saying like hey we're going to hold each
other accountable
read through where he recites
pericles funeral oration
and thucydides even though he was not a
member of the democratic
party he nevertheless gives
us passionately pericles's speech in
which he explains
500 bc why he should have been
at the constitutional convention in 1787
because he was thinking the same
thoughts
none of us is wise but together
if we criticize each other we can
cancel each other's delusions but work
together
on each other's good ideas
a positive some game
and the pericle periclean athens and
da vinci's florence and and renaissance
athens were
so much more creative than all the other
cultures around them that they terrified
all the oligarchs and kings and priests
around them
and so they swarmed in and crushed these
experiments
to preserve the pyramidal society that's
happening
right now in the west and especially the
united states of america
oligarchies around the world and within
america
are all working together to smash
this latest periclean
experiment because it's by far the most
successful
250 years of relentless
too slow but relentless self-improvement
technological advancement um
generation of optimism and better
governance
but also better justice
slow too slow
grudging step one step and then a pause
that was too long a pause
horrible horrible but only horrible
compared to what we aspire to be
not horrible compared to all those other
of cultures across 6 000 years
vastly better than them by all standards
but we're horrible we're horrible
compared to what we
perhaps delusionally think we could
become
and it's only one culture that has
spread
that delusion that delusion of star trek
that delusion that we can get past this
that delusion that our grandchildren can
be so much better than us
that will wince the way
the veil wins thinking of us the way we
wince at some of the things that abraham
lincoln said
while admitting yeah he took things
forward a lot
i don't know answer your question it
well we're certainly on an interesting
vein
so when you think about the that
periclean
experiment being undermined now um
so we've got the reconsolidation of
power into the hands of a few
what else is going on to make that
happen one thing i've heard you talk
about and you were you know for people
just listening to this
um when referencing sort of the
political spectrum you were holding
hands and and talking about how each
side was
working together in a more um
high functioning way in that they were
apt to point out what you were doing
wrong but they were
doing it in a spirit and correct me if
this is inaccurate to what you're saying
but that they were doing it in a spirit
of
hey when we come together and recognize
that the value is in the friction
this is how i always explain it to
people the value is in the friction
between
a conservative and a liberal and that
either one taking to the extreme
becomes uh it becomes uh
problematic deeply pathologized and
go ahead one of them has that's exactly
what's happened to one of
our sides of our political spectrum uh
it's gone completely insane
and when that happens you no longer have
this give and take of discovery each
other's errors you no longer have
this word call called negotiation
um you you no longer have a word that is
highly derided and it's being derided by
uh enemy propaganda media and that's
a p word it's called politics which
is filthy but it is how
we've negotiated adaptation to new
times and politics was i can tell you
when politics was killed in the united
states of america
it was killed in um 1997.
when newt gingrich who still believed in
politics even though he was
a nasty piece of work in a lot of ways
he still
believed that the job of the united
states congress was still to negotiate
do trade-offs and come up
with something vaguely positive some a
little bit for you a little bit for me
more for me he was replaced by a fellow
by the name of dennis hastert
uh and your audience should look up this
guy
who one of our parties made speaker of
the house
the top official in their party and
his hastert rule declared that members
of his party
shall never again negotiate with or even
talk to or socialize with
members of the other party this was said
explicitly and it was backed
up by the media of that
political wing of of our society
um and as a result
politics the ability to actually
negotiate
and we're seeing this right now the
ability to negotiate
and adapt to new times in new
circumstances
was killed dead and it was that year in
and there are attempts to resurrect it
but i'm afraid it's going to have to be
resurrected
over the smoldering carcass of one of
our parties
right my friends let's talk about blue
blocks blue blocker glasses have been a
game changer in my life
if you're someone like me who is
sensitive to artificial lighting and
extra sensitive to artificial
blue light from a cell phone or a
computer screen then
you need to try blue blocker lenses they
are going to improve your sleep
and now there's a company called blue
blocks who is
elevating blue blockers in a whole new
way with stylish and scientifically
based
blue light blocking glasses blue blocks
offers high quality blue blocker glasses
designed for
any time of the day for any lighting
situation with three specific lens
styles
daytime nighttime and color therapy
there's the blue light daywear computer
glasses that filter harmful artificial
blue light across the whole blue light
spectrum
these are anti-glare lenses that can
help prevent headaches macular
degeneration
and digital eye strain the summer glow
mood boost therapy glasses block 100 of
light in the high
energy portion of the blue spectrum and
can assist with migraines and anxiety
these are great if you work under
intense artificial lighting during the
day
or if you're extra sensitive to
artificial blue light after the sun goes
down sleet plus blue blocker glasses are
perfect to wear two to three hours
before bed
which i do religiously they can help
with insomnia
jet lag management and body clock
alignment for a peaceful
night's sleep blue blocks is all about
science quality and style their products
are made under optics laboratory
conditions in australia
and come in prescription
non-prescription and readers
and blue blocks ships all over the world
for
free blue blocks is offering a special
discount exclusive for
impact theory listeners go to
blueblocks.com
forward slash impact theory for 15 off
your order or
use discount code impact theory at
checkout
once again that's blue blocks which is b
l u
b l o x dot com forward slash
impact theory for 15 off your order or
use the discount code
impact theory at checkout all right my
friends give these a shot
i use them all the time take care and be
legendary
so this is where uh science fiction
writers take on things gets pretty
interesting for me as you start to
imagine what the traffic jam
is that comes out of that um
once that relationship becomes
pathologized to me you begin to
have a breakdown of that sense of
progress and i heard you made
a comment one time and i wanted to ask
you if this was just offhanded or if you
really mean this you said that the
enlightenment had collapsed
and i thought okay do we mean that
literally
uh i'd love to get your answer that has
the enlightenment collapsed
oh no it hasn't collapsed what's
happened is
that several of the tools that we used
to maintain our momentum had collapsed
okay so now let's get real specific
define for people what the enlightenment
is and then what are the tools and then
which ones are
broken well the enlightenment is
generally speaking the notion that
uh individually we are flawed but that
we
can uh together uh increase the amount
of light in the world
uh so going back to the scientific
notion of i could be wrong
that friction between the the two sides
i'll help you with your delusions you
help me with mine
it is less friction than it is
competition
look the the left has a mimic flaw in
that they consider the word competition
to be associated with
um robert barrons
when that's the opposite of how adam
smith meant it
adam smith hated oligarchy he
knew about those six thousand years 99
of which competition which is the great
creative force
in the universe it made us now the
competition in nature is bloody
we're trying to come up with methods
that are much more genteel like on a
sporting
yeah on a sports field and the way you
tame
competition so you get the maximum
benefits from competition
as on a sporting field with minimizing
the blood on the floor and the cheating
is regulation and adam smith did not say
take away all regulation he said the
opposite
he said markets need to be regulated so
that monopolists can't
cheat because 6 000 years
is the story of kings and lords and the
owners
the of all the property cheating so that
their sons who never did a damn thing
for anybody
inherited everything uh no adam smith
is the opposite of what a lot of these
laissez-faire people
uh said he extolled competition so
the right tends to say yay competition
boo regulation the left tends to say yay
regulation blue competition
it's ridiculous regulated competition
is how we got the spectacular success of
sports
in which most cheating is caught
and as a result the audience members
have confidence in
the thing that they're watching and
enjoying
and they're getting the maximum benefit
out of that well guess what
sports is only the fifth of five
accountability arenas that
harness competition in the enlightenment
we spoke of markets those at the top
and with the most money would cheat in
markets they always have
unless there's regulation to keep
competition
fair and to encourage entrepreneurship
and new startups from the bottom
uh democracy when
when there's fair competition over
policy
you wind up getting negotiated
compromises
the public winds up supporting one uh
thing over another
um but democracy has to be regulated
to reduce cheating or cheaters will
cheat and we've been seeing
that hugely lately
um the third arena is justice quartz
now they're it's very different
everything is meticulous everything is
you know because they it can't afford an
error rate
whereas markets can afford a huge
error rate in order to encourage
creativity
so i i still weep every day and light a
candle up
at the foot of betamax
it's all right i'm an apple user
and the fifth arena other than sports
is science and science doesn't need much
regulation
because science is the most competitive
field of all
scientists are most the most competitive
humans
our species ever created they are
utterly ruthless at criticizing each
other's
failings because that's how they get
their most reputation points
so you don't need a lot of external
regulation
in science because the scientists are
doing it themselves so you have markets
democracy science justice courts and
sports
and they all do the same thing the
reason they
get the maximum positive some benefits
out of
competition while minimizing
the costs the blood on the floor that we
had in the
bloodiness of nature or the cheating of
most societies
is through regulation and interestingly
enough neither the left or the right
zeroes in on this that it's only the
combination
regulated competition umpires
that's what works so how do we begin to
sway culture back is it going to be
through
the maybe that's not the right way to
ask a question how do we
navigate this moment how do we thread
this needle so we have a time where
uh there is tremendous distrust sort of
in
all of those arenas except for maybe
sports but that's when i didn't quite
understand
how it fits with the other four but
how do we navigate through this in a
time where
political discourse is broken social
media just lets people
isolate the algorithms tell you show you
the people that are basically saying
either the thing that
outrages you which is where we started
all of this how easily people are
outraged
or it just shows you the things you
already believe
um how do we begin to pull people back
and get them on a useful path in my
novel earth
and this was 1990 i had web pages before
there was a web
uh in that volume the um
i talked about how in the future people
would become addicted to little
nuremberg rallies
little chambers echo chambers where they
could hear the same thing
um that they agree with and this human
flaw has been exploited by the enemies
of the enlightenment by the enemies of
our civilization
by desp foreign despots by ex-communists
uh who use exactly the same methods and
exactly the same guys as they did back
when they were um
communists as they did as their
grandfathers did under the tsar um
and those among the rich not all of them
who
want to conspire to be lords again
um this
we've been egged on into these
little nuremberg rallies and in earth i
talk about
i talked back in 1990 about ways to
penetrate these
and also in my non-fiction book the
transparent society
but the thing is
that the worst thing that's
happened to destroy us is also the
easiest to solve
and that is um
the media serving these enemies
has taken uh something that is true
and twisted it into something that's a
lie
and millions of our neighbors swallow
this
true
not everybody who knows a lot
and has expertise and is really smart
is wise excuse me but duh
that goes back to this even if it
weren't obviously true in
all other cultures it's certainly
we all believe that because of suspicion
of authority we were all raised to
believe that any snooty expert who
thinks
who claims that they know everything
uh is probably not wise and
that it's possible for experts or people
who know a lot to be unwise
but this has been metastasized it has
been warped
deliberately by enemy propaganda
into something else something they never
actually say explicitly but it's
implicit in almost
everything you get from these propaganda
centers
and that is the following
because someone is smart and knows a lot
they are automatically unwise
now that uses all the same words
as the thing that you know is true but
you know damn well that's not true
that's that's a freaking lie it's insane
in fact people who know a lot who
developed expertise in an area who are
very smart
probably on average have a little more
wisdom too
especially when they are sicked against
each other
in an open playing field and we can hear
them
argue as we've seen going on among the
scientists during coven
as we see happen all the time in this
society
nobody is saying trust the experts
because they're experts
but a burden of proof
falls on those who say all the experts
in a field
are wrong and that's
best example of that is climate change
and those who have been spreading
climate denialism
if you watch how they parse
it it is endless repetitions
of that second statement without ever
saying it explicitly
those who are expert in a field
who are smart and know a lot are
automatically unwise now this
is not the first time that's been the
case
throughout human history the ruling
classes have always taken the creative
people
and the expert people and cauterized
them
as what the english used to call boffins
you just stay in your lab
leave the wisdom stuff to us
we broke out of that about 80 90 years
ago
well it was actually all along
smart innovators and all that got more
respect in america than most
other places in the world the notion
that
you may criticize and poke and ask
and interrogate the experts
but if you're going to claim that all of
them
mutually competing with each other all
the people who know about a topic
are wrong except for the maybe one
percent who have sold out for your media
network
uh uh excuse me you bear the burden of
proof they don't bear
how do we how do we break people out of
that so i get
there so my whole thing is don't try to
change behavior try to leverage
it so you've got the human inclination
is to team up
so i'm on this team this is my identity
and then you pair that with that
whatever you repeat
will seem true so now you've got people
who are likely to pick a side because it
helps sort of shorthand
for them who am i uh it streamlines the
thought process
right over the last i don't know two
decades or something we've seen
that if somebody identifies left or
right you can now predict with some
just egregious amount of accuracy how
they'll line up on an issue depending on
how that political
um affiliation lines up because people
are trying to
take a very sort of overwhelming
confusing world and they're trying to
find things to simplify
so okay i am liberal therefore i think
this or i am conservative and therefore
i think this
so you've got propensity to pick a team
married to
i need somebody to just basically tell
me how to think to simplify this world
and now it how the hell do you break
people
out of that well there are there are a
couple of techniques that are not being
used
for one thing um
just because you can predict what people
believe
by which side of the spectrum they're on
doesn't mean that there isn't a
difference between
how right they are and you can see this
in the simple fact that one side of our
spectrum right now
is screaming hate
at all of our expert casts
we're talking science we're talking uh
journalism
teaching law
civil servants and now they're screaming
at
the so-called deep state
um which includes the united states
military officer corps
it includes all the intelligence
agencies
and uh the fbi and all of that all the
people who won the cold war
and the war on terror are all
declared deep state enemies without the
slightest proof
um because
they are almost all coming forth and
saying facts are things
now let me be clear the other side of
the spectrum has
some people like that
that side contains some people
cancel culture bullies who
similarly post-modernists who similarly
despise
fact people but they don't run that side
but let me just step back from sides
okay you asked how you get past that
the answer is simple wagers
now many of us remember when mitt romney
dared uh
perry the governor of texas to a ten
thousand dollar bet on tv
and was ridiculed a rich man trying to
bully
a somewhat less rich man ah
it's ridiculous
the fact of the matter is nobody has
tried it since
and what you're talking about is
now this doesn't work on the left
because they'll just claim i don't have
any money
but those who have
problems with facts on the right
generally tend to have a substantial
macho
feeling a a a sense that machismo
is very important to them they
understand
the concept of a bar bet
there are times when it comes down
to fact if you're going to
bet on a sports statistic the bartender
takes your
your hundred dollars i d takes my
hundred dollars
we look it up he hands the money to
uh whoever won there are
so many aspects of this
war on fact that
could be very very clearly adjudicated
and the way i express it is okay let's
let's bet over whether or not your party
is waging more on all fact professions
name one you're not waging war upon
now i'll bet you can't come up with one
and
how would you how would you adjudicate
that like this feels like it was
i like you tom you you exactly went to
the next question
you adjudicated in a way that terrifies
them
you say let's put it before a panel
of retired senior military officers
because that puts them in an absolutely
lose-lose situation
officially they revere and admire these
guys
but they know damn well that these guys
spent their lives and their careers
dedicated above all to fact these
are mostly 70 percent of them
former republicans but
you know exactly how they'll rule on
climate change
or almost anything that's a fact
determinable falsifiable or provable
wager it's interesting because i think i
think you're going to have a problem
with the psychological immune system
the the way that people will either try
to undermine the process or back away
from the process
where i thought you were going to go so
in your book um
transparent world society
transparent society um where you talk
about thank you
you talk about the idea that hey look uh
having people
spying on your privacy is not really a
problem where it's a problem is when
it's one directional
and if you've got big brother who has a
screen into your life but you don't have
a screen into big brother's life
that's an issue but once you're looking
at omni valence i believe you called it
once you have everybody
looking at everything then there's
nowhere to hide now that
may have uh a possibility of
being more successful but like really
really truly
david when i think about what it takes
to get to the
other side of this i only see
and i really want this to be wrong this
is not me saying hey here's the answer
and i'm
i am really really uh i'm an optimistic
person by nature
but i worry that until there is
sufficient suffering on both sides
that people continue down this path
of teaming up to
antagonize and fight against the other
side
with a total inability to accept
criticism an unwillingness to say i
might be wrong
um to me the solution is somehow some
way you have to get people to say i
might be wrong
well i i look in abstract you're right
um everybody has these percept
problems in practice you're wrong
i spoke about how a majority of people
in our culture unlike any other
understand the basic concept of a
positive sum game
understand the basic concept that facts
should overrule effects and objective
reality should overrule subjective
reality
and that a decent person let alone a
smart one
adjusts their opinions in the face of
disproof
but do you see evidence of that right
now i see absolute evidence
i see absolute evidence and the majority
of americans believe those things
i believe it's a majority i believe that
an oligarchy is very very
cleverly manipulating all of our systems
to take advantage of their last chance
to cheat
i'm more optimistic than you um
i think they are in a blind panic right
now because
um demographically the party that
they've used as their instrument of
power
is dying people uh fled
from that political party in massive
numbers by
millions last year um
and their desperate efforts to cheat
right now
are based on the fact that um
they're going to collapse and american
conservatism is going to have to
reinvent itself they're already
very respectable american conservatives
talking about how to re
reinvent it um if
they're um if they hemorrhage
even one million more members just one
million more members all of their
cheating will be
in vain uh and
we are in a in the desperate turning
point right now
um this year in the next year as to
whether or not
uh those methods will succeed so yes i
am optimistic
it's it's it doesn't sound optimistic
it's it's but i consider this to be
phase eight of the american civil war
and it's the same sides um
this was a particularly a nasty one
and it will only end
the way the others ended can you give me
can you rattle off all eight
oh yeah the first phase was in 1778 when
cornwallis went south
um uh because washington had them
stymied up in the north
um in the north northern states the
um citizenry was enraged and all in
favor of
uh mostly in favor of revolution
so cornwallis took his army down to
charleston in savannah
on the theory that they would find more
romantics down there and that's always
been the zeitgeist is romanticism
and sure enough they found that it was
pretty much evenly divided
a one-third revolutionary one-third tory
for the king and one-third just leave me
alone
and um so he was able to run wild with a
lot of
support uh and that was phase one of the
of the american civil war phase two was
um
handled by andy jackson in dealing with
his vice president um at the time
it was a minor phase but it was very
seriously came close to
breaking us up um phase three
was um in 1852
the fugitive slave act and as soon as
the fugitive slave act was
um passed by this by a
despicable supreme court squadrons of
the irregular southern cavalry began
crisscrossing northern states rampaging
breaking down doors kidnapping people
burning homes committing every tr every
atrocity you could think of killing
people and this went on and on and on
until the northern states started
radicalizing and restarting their
militias
and you don't you don't honestly think
abraham lincoln would have been elected
if there hadn't been eight
solid years of horrible depredations
and that led to phase four what we
normally think of the civil war
um and that was extremely violent
and then the others were you know jim
crow and reconstruction
and we're now in phase eight and it it
can only
it can only be resolved the way the
others were and that is my total union
victory
i'm not talking about liberal i'm not
talking about uh
leftist i'm not talking about any of
that crap it happens to be that there's
a correlation
right now because that's where all of
the fact
professions have fled to
i mean one of the parties contains
some cancel culture obnoxious you know
disgusting uh postmodernist bullies
but it also contains all the scientists
all the teachers all the journalists
90 and and increasingly most of the
military officers and
intelligence agents and fbi agents
because
they're on the side of
the periclean experiment
and if it wins then we will go
back to arguing with each other again
and that's me being optimistic in a very
shall we say not optimistic tone of
voice
i don't i don't know for sure that we're
going to win this round
we had better because it's not just
america that's at stake
if this periclean enlightenment fails
i don't think that's ever going to be
tried again
i think the oligarchs will make damn
sure
like they did after the periclean
original periclean athens
it wasn't tried again for another 2 000
years
yeah that's crazy to think now they will
have all of those technologies that you
spoke of
see when i when i'm talking about
transparent society i'm not saying that
omnivalence
um look if we have omnivalence and the
people can look back at power and this
is what
terrifies the polit bureaus or
ex-politburo in in some of these um
uh despotic states around the world
they're terrified that the people would
look back at them
if the people can look back at big
brother then big brother goes away and
that we
we're no longer worried about that but
if
light flows everywhere and we can all
look at each other
then you have the problem that was in
that film the circle
based on dave egger's novel called the
circle
and that is we look at each other
and bully each other and nobody
shot no shy person can find refuge um
it's a return to the village of old but
not a nice village the one got
dominated by gossips and bullies
and you see this a lot and it's inherent
in human nature
and so if we don't have dominance
if if omnivalence enables us not to have
um oppression by a few at the top
what's to prevent oppression laterally
you know by 51
little brothers because if it's all in
the open and 51
vote democratically and openly for a law
that oppresses
your kind of person well
there's transparency for you
there's an answer to that and that is
cultural values if we have a cultural
value
of mayab mind your own business
leave each other alone have sympathy for
the shy
and the vulnerable
then who is going to be outed in such a
society where we can all see
the ones who want to uh you having your
privacy
invaded or is it going to be
those who invade your privacy
is it going to be the bullies
if you if we have a cultural value
of mind your own business leave each
other alone
watch out for each other's feelings
then that means that we'll defend each
other's
privacy
there is no other path
we have to have omnivalence to avoid big
brother
but if we have omnivalence how to avoid
oppression by little brother
by saying to all the little brothers out
there
mind your own damn business
it's interesting in a world where people
are volunteering so much
information um i'll be curious to see if
if that's a a plausible
reaction um when you were going through
the eight ways
uh or the eight phases of the civil war
it
it made me wonder do you have a formal
process for learning and is it focused
primarily on history
uh well you know as i said earlier i
thought science fiction
should be been named speculative history
because actually science fiction authors
read
and watch on tv and youtube and all that
more history than science uh even me i'm
a scientist i consult with nasa
i'm involved in nasa's innovative
advanced concepts
program you have a phd in physics right
yeah
yeah which already is crazy
it does make you crazy um
the the point is
uh senior moment how do you go about
learning so yeah like i look behind you
and there's a bazillion books
i imagine those aren't even all the
books how do you decide what vein to tap
into well you know one of the things
that you
when i give commencement speeches
um especially to high school students
but um also
you know at college
i tell them that if they spend their
time at a university
just studying what they're there to
study
they have betrayed their civilization
let alone that's a big statement yes
let alone betrayed themselves
the modern university especially the
american university
is a wonder it's the greatest
thing that humans ever did and
part of the change that i was talking
about
where the boffins were unleashed
happened because of the difference in
the style of university
if you go around the world most european
universities and most
universities in asia and africa that
have imitated the european model
they have a three-year baccalaureate
degree
we have a four-year degree if you ask
a european why they will answer well
it's because
american students are so stupid they
need
another year of remedial education well
in a sense
in a sense yes but it's not that simple
the reason why we have a four-year
university degree is that spread across
those four years
is an entire year's worth of breadth
requirements
you go to an american university in
canadian as an undergraduate
and if you're a science major you're
required to take a year of arts
humanities history
uh and so on and if you pay attention
and let these things open your mind and
heart
to those topics you may retain a certain
curiosity about them
the rest of your life um i'm
i was told that i saw einstein's play
the violin when i was four
whoa um i have no memory of it
but
when i went to caltech i met
richard feynman murray gilman and found
out that all the great scientists i've
ever met
had artistic sidelines that they pursued
passionately
literary uh feynman's painter and a
bongos player
um and so on
you can be positive some you can be more
than one thing
how do you choose though how do you
decide like time is so finite
how do you decide what you're going to
pursue you personally get angry
at the finiteness of life i'm right
there with you
you get mad and that takes us back to
that wonderful movie network
if you want to fight something that's
what howard beal says
when he says you've but i don't know how
to solve the inflation or the
or the racism or anything but i know
that first you have to get
mad and then he says go to the window
and yell
i am as bad as hell and i'm not going to
take it anymore and
you will give your audience members a
link to
where i answer that it's a wonderful
movie
it's a powerful message and it's the
wrong message for our time
but when it comes to life
and its limitations and the limited
number of hours that you have in the day
and the limited number of days that you
have in your life
that wonderful poem is important
do not go you know softly into that good
night
rage rage against the dying of the light
well
raging against death is utterly
futile but raging
systematically
against your limitations
i am not a limited being
oh i'm limited but time i'm limited in
resources i'm limited in brain power i'm
limited in all those things
but i can be interested
in more than one thing
and so this is what the american and
canadian university did
if you're a science major you have to
take
a year's worth of breadth requirements
and humanities
and law and and things like that and
what the result was
that the nerds and the geeks at so many
companies
got frustrated with their bosses and
said you know what
what he does is real easy i'm going to
start my own company
or i'm going to get a law degree or or
an mba
on the side while i'm inventing and then
all of a sudden you had a situation in
which nerds and geeks who are inventing
wound up actually owning and running
and the same thing in the opposite
direction
arts majors history majors english
majors are required to take
three or four introductory science
classes and some math now it's not much
i've taught some of those classes
in a real lightweight
but it's enough that i'm going to ask
you tom to guess
what nation on earth always scores on
the top three
in adult science literacy it's cheating
because i've
watched so many hours of you talking i
know the answer
which is it was shocking by the way i
would
never have guessed it yeah even with
the linguistic clues that i just gave
your audience members one two of them
are gonna have the guts to guess
what nation is always in the top three
of adult science literacy and it's the
united states of america
and we're so used to self-flagellating
how awful and stupid our children are
and a bad our education system is
but because of those three or four
science literacy classes
that the arts and the history and the
law and all those majors are supposed to
take
the average american who's had any
university education
actually knows a thing or two about what
an atom is
so what i tell the students
that these talks is very simple
i want you to get up now leave this
stupid speech by this stupid sci-fi
author
and i want you to walk to a randomly
chosen building on a
college campus throw a dart
each month at a map of the university on
the wall
and go to the nearest place to where the
dart went
choose a random building stand outside
with some d
d dice and roll a random floor go to
that floor
stand at the end of the hall throw a
ball down the hall
wherever the ball stopped now you've
chosen a random room
on a random floor in a random building
pick up the ball
no tripping knock on the nearest door
and say excuse me
what do you do here
now always in life ask yourself
what's the worst that could happen uh i
was wooing a young woman i wanted her to
be my wife
she said she could never marry
a man who hadn't jumped out of an
airplane at 10 000 feet
so i said well leadville colorado is at
000 feet can i jump out of an airplane
on the tarmac and she said
nope so well 30 years later we're still
married so
needless to say i jumped out of an
airplane
but when i made that decision i ask
myself what's the worst that can happen
and the positive out likely outcome
outweighed the unlikely
highly negative outcome
when you are asked to choose a random
door to knock on at a university campus
what's the worst that can happen
tom they tell you to bug off or it's
empty
those are those are like the two bugger
off
kid to which you reply
and then just knock on the next door
within three doors
you will be taken on a tour of stuff
you never imagined
stuff that is changing what it is to be
human
as we speak do that just a few dozen
times and you will never be the same
person and all it cost you is a
an hour a month and besides which it's a
good
date it's a great date you invite
somebody along on that in a little group
of three or four
it's like nothing she's ever been asked
before
she'll be different of you than than all
the other suitors
um the point is
when i told that story at
the southern china technological
institute a new university in shenzhen
the the high tech entrepreneurial
city in china
the looks and this was the science
fiction club these were the rambunctious
ones
the appalled looks on their faces taught
me so much
when i asked what's the worst that can
happen if you knock on a random door
one kid shouted out you might get
caught
and i have never given a sermon
so eloquent as the one that i gave at
that moment without any words
just by letting my jaw drop open
because it never occurred to me
that i would get that response
shouted by a young person at a
university
this distilled for me
what the enlightenment experiment is
about
and i have received mail from all sorts
of people
who said they went ahead and they
started knocking on doors and asking
in a less systematic and less organized
way it's what i did at caltech and when
i did my phd at ucsd
and it's how i got half of my education
and it didn't cost much time
you can it's not that you have to do
that particular
thing
it's the attitude
that makes you a member of this
civilization
i am surrounded by wonders i deserve to
know about them
my tax dollars helped pay for all this
crap
i deserve 10 minutes of your time
telling me what the hell you do here
and when i leave i may invite you to
pizza
[Laughter]
i may make friends that i will never
forget
you have a right to that
yeah i definitely want to live in a
world where people are more curious
there's no question about that
david i think you introduced us to the
perfect place to stop thank you
so much for everything you put out into
the world
all your writing your vision for the
future
um all the talks that you do which are
really really fantastic and thank you so
much for your time today
i definitely appreciate it i appreciate
it tom and i'm sure there will be links
below
um could you include the link to a
project that i'd like your
folks to check in on in about six months
it's called there's a story about that
tasset
after years telling people at cia and
other places
that um when they
find something weird going on they
should refer to
80 years of science fiction thought
experiments because probably some author
has thought through this thing alien
contact rule people coming out of the
ground
whatever it is tassat is an organization
that's going to try to get
nerds and geeks to be available to refer
to those thousands of stories
in case those thought experiments are
necessary
we're still refining the site but within
six months i hope that you and some of
the
uh some of your wonderful geeky audience
will uh will sign in
in any event you ask great questions and
men do you do your homework tom
thank you thank you for uh making my
homework time well spent i appreciate
that very much
and other than there's a story about
that which we will link to so if i just
misspoke the exact uh letters don't
worry
we will link to it but where should
people
stay in touch with you oh well my my
um website is davidbrynn.com
i have a newsletter i hope people will
sign up for it because i'm not a nag i
i sent out one a year and the last five
months has been the most productive of
my
professional life i've got 12 different
book
projects that have been i showed you a
couple of them
this is um my young adult
book that just came out an adventure in
which uh aliens kidnap
a california high school and live to
regret it
um davidbrynn.com i also have a blog
called contrary brim uh
and it's got one of the oldest and
um and savviest comment communities
out there so in any event um
hang in there and fight for civilization
this remember it's not about left and
right it's a stupid
stupid metaphor we inherit from the
french of all people i mean for heaven's
sake
it's about four little do they know by
the way that you're fluent in french
well david thank you so much for joining
me today i really appreciate it
uh good luck with everything and
speaking of things that will bring you
good luck if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe
and until next time my friends be
legendary take care
[Music]
you